Please answer the below core-java Questions:


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A: Java Development Kit, composed of JRE, Compiler and Debugger
	JRE - Java Runtime Environment
	Compiler - Translates source code into byte code
	Debugger - Provides inspection and debugging

What is IDE?
A: Integrated Development Environment. Where you type your code.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A: Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans


Explain the entire java life cycle.
A: A java program will be written and then compiled by a Java Compiler.From there it will turn into a .class, which then goes through an interpretor.This translated the java code into binary machine code. This is then outputted to the computer.

what is class?
A: A blueprint for creating Objects.

What is object?
A: An entity that has state and behavior.

What is the entry point of an application?
A: The Main Method

Why main is static?
A: When a java program execute, it looks like as public static void main method. The reason main method is static , so that it could be called by JVM without creating an instance of the class.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A: No, A java abstract class also cannot be instantiated, but can be invoked. Any variable declare in the interface are final or constant. One can create an instance of an anonymous subclass of your abstract class. And then it could be invoked the method from  abstract class reference pointing to subclass object.

what is Access Specifier?
A:The access modifiers in java specifies accessibility (scope) of a data member, method, constructor or class


What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A: OOP- Object Oriented Program.
1.	Inheritance: Is a mechanism in which one object acquires all the properties and behaviors of parent class.
2.	Abstraction: Implementation hiding
3.	Polymorphism: It is an ability of an object to make on many form.
    Two types of polymorphism:
    1-	Method Overloading ? Happens on Compile time
    2-	Method Overriding?  Happens on Run time
4.	Encapsulation: Data hiding


What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A: API- Application programming interface.
List of API - Core java API, OSGI, JMF, Google, Android, SE, ME, JSP

Does java support multiple inheritance?
A: No. To reduce the complexity and simplify the language

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A: If a class have a multiple methods by same name but different parameters, it is known as method Overloading. Happen on compile time.


Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A:  In java exception are object. During the program compilation the execution of the program behaves unexpectedly, exception occurred. Try-catch and throw exception two most popular way to handle exception

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Static variable: Static variable is used to refer the common property of all objects. Static variable gets memory only once in class area at the time of class loading.

Static method: A static method belongs to the class rater than object of a class.A static method can be invoked without the need for creating as instance of class. Static method can access static data member and can change the value of it.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A: The final keyword in java is used to restrict the users. The java final keyword can be used in many contexts, final can be:
1.	Variable
2.	Method
3.	Class
Variable: If you make any final variable as final, you cannot change the value of final variable (It will be constant)
Method: If you make any final method, you can override it.
Class: If you make any final class you cannot extend it.


What is final, finally and finalize?
A:
Final: Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variables. Final class cannot be inherited, final method cannot be overridden, and final variable cannot be changed. And final is ?Keyword?.
Finally: Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. And finally is ?Block?.
Finalize: Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is grabbed collected. And Finalize is a ?Method?.

What is a constructor ?
A: Constructor is just like a method that is used to initialize the state of and object. It is invoked at the name of the object creation.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A: There can be a lot of usage of java keyword. In java this is a reference variable that refers to the current object, and instance variable

What is "super" keyword in java?
A: It is keyword that refers to the immediate parent class object

What is JVM stand for ?
A: JVM: Java Virtual Machine

What version of java are you using?
A: java version "1.8.0_131"

What is JAR stand for ?
A: Java Archive

What is compile time and run time?
A:
Compile time: A compile time error is a problem such as syntax error (example; }  ) or spelling mistake example (string), instead of String.
Runtime:  A runtime error occurs while your program is running. Sometimes this error can be tough to track down.

What is heap?
A: The heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated. The heap is created on virtual machine start-up

How java manage it's memory?
A: Memory management is the process of allocating new objects and removing unused objects to make space for those new object allocations. This section presents some basic memory management concepts and explains the basics about object allocation and garbage collection

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A:
 String is an immutable class, it cannot be changed.
 String Builder: String buffer is mutable class that can be appended to, characters replaced or removed and ultimately converted.
 String Buffer: Is the original synchronized version of string Builder.

What is Singleton class?
A: singleton class is a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time


What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A:

Serialization: Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams
Deserialization: The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?

Why is String Immutable in Java?

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A:Calling one constructor from other is called Constructor chaining in Java

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A:  serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one Garbage Collection thread for the Garbage Collection operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple Garbage Collection threads for the Garbage Collection operation

What is JIT stands for?
A: JIT stands for Just In time compilation

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A:The Difference between heap and stack is that stack memory is used to store local variables and function call while heap memory is used to store objects in Java





